# Access Control (ACL)

## When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?

- Basic authentication send credentials as username and password pairs, encoded using base64. The client sends HTTP requests with the Authorization header that contains the word Basic word followed by a space and a base64-encoded string username:password.
  that is not full secure method.
- Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) has security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected

## What does the JSON Web Token package do?

- It defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object.

## What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?

- Differentiate Between Secrets and Identifiers
- Establish a Circle of Trust
- Gain Visibility into the Chain of Trust
- Encrypt Data Using a KMS
- Rotate Secrets Frequently
- Automate Password Creation
- Store Secrets Responsibly
- Detect Unauthorized Access

[source](https://thenewstack.io/8-best-practices-for-container-secrets-management/)

---

- `encryption`: It is to rewrite the password or secret information in other way that is not understandable but between the sender and the receiver.
- `token`: It is alphanumerical phrase that generated after the user sign in, it allow him/her to access the site many times to without signing up as he/she became authenticated.  
- `bearer`: It is the process of verifying the token and giving the access to the user based on it.  
- `secret`: every API has a unique secret, It protects the resources by only granting tokens to authorized requestors.
- `JSON Web Token`: It is a proposed Internet standard for creating data with optional signature and/or optional encryption whose payload holds JSON that asserts some number of claims. The tokens are signed either using a private secret or a public/private key.


