# API Integration

## How do bearer tokens work?

- Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) has security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected.

## Describe express middleware

- Express middleware are functions that execute during the lifecycle of a request to the Express server. Each middleware has access to the HTTP request and response for each route (or path) it's attached to. This “chaining” of middleware allows you to compartmentalize your code and create reusable middleware.

## What is a JWT?

- It is a proposed Internet standard for creating data with optional signature and/or optional encryption whose payload holds JSON that asserts some number of claims. The tokens are signed either using a private secret or a public/private key.
- It defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object.

---

- `role based access control`: Role-based access control (RBAC) restricts network access based on a person's role within an organization and has become one of the main methods for advanced access control. The roles in RBAC refer to the levels of access that employees have to the network.
- `http cookies`: The are built specifically for Internet web browsers to track, personalize, and save information about each user's session. A “session” just refers to the time you spend on a site. Cookies are created to identify you when you visit a new website.
